Add blogpost of Mio 0.7 alpha 1 announcement (#345)
tokio-rs/website: content/blog/2019-11-mio-v0.7-alpha.md

will be close to the proposed API for a future version 1.0. The scope for the
crate was reduced to providing a cross-platform event notification mechanism and
commonly used types such as cross-thread poll waking and non-blocking networking
I/O primitives.

<!-- TODO: not sure if this is correct timeline. -->
[various contributors]: https://github.com/tokio-rs/mio/graphs/contributors?from=2019-03-01&to=2019-11-03&type=c

## Major changes

Since this is a large release only some highlights are described here, all
changes can be found in the [change log]. Overall a large number of API changes
have been made to reduce the complexity of the implementation and remove
overhead were possible.

<!-- TODO: link to v0.7 in the changelog. -->
<!-- TODO: also write the changelog. -->
[change log]: https://github.com/tokio-rs/mio/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md

### Wrapping native OS types

In version 0.6 Mio defined it's own `Event` structure to which the native OS
types where converted. This meant that after polling the native types (i.e.
`kqueue` or `epoll_event` structures) would be converted into Mio's `Event`
type. In version 0.7 the `Event` was changed to simply be a type wrapper around

> `kqueue` or `epoll_event` and provides convenience methods to get the event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kqueue` or `epoll_event`, which convenience methods to get the event
```

> readiness indicators such as readable or writable. Similar changes have been

Reviewer: consider:
```suggestion
readiness indicators (such as readable or writable). Similar changes have been
```

> made throughout the crate, for example `Poll` is now just a file descriptor on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
made throughout the crate. For example, `Poll` is now just a file descriptor on
```

Unix.

> Handling of events in the `Events` has also changed. In version 0.6.10 index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handling of events in the `Events` struct has also changed. In version 0.6.10 index
```
Though, I might consider just changing this to something like
```suggestion
The way events are handled using the `Events` struct has also changed. In version 0.6.10 index
```

Reviewer: missing comma:
```suggestion
Handling of events in the `Events` has also changed. In version 0.6.10, index
```

access was already deprecated and replaced with an iteration API. The index

> access was completely removed in version 0.7 and the iteration API was changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
access was completely removed in version 0.7, and the iteration API was changed
```

to return a reference to `Event` rather then making a copy, but since all

> methods on `Event` only need a reference this shouldn't be a problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
methods on `Event` only need a reference, this shouldn't be a problem.
```

### Removal of the user space queue & deprecated types

Mio version 0.6 had a user space queue, available through the `SetReadiness` and
`Registration` types, but this has been removed in version 0.7 as it was deemed
to be outside of the scope for Mio. Users who need a user space queue can use
one of the queue types found in the [crossbeam] crate.

One use case the user space queue support was waking a thread polling (i.e.

> calling `Poll::poll`) from another thread. To support this use case a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
calling `Poll::poll`) from another thread. To support this use case, a new
```

`Waker` type was introduced to do exactly this job, calling `Waker::wake` will
wake the `Poll` it is associated with.

[crossbeam]: https://crates.io/crates/crossbeam

### Registering & I/O resource usages changes

By far the biggest user facing change of version 0.7 is the way Mio registers

> I/O sources. In version 0.6 resource would be registered using a `Token`,

Reviewer 2: More grammar trouble.  I suggest:

In version 0.6 resources were registered using `Token`, `Ready`, and `PollOpt` arguments.

`Ready` interests and `PollOpt`ions. For example the following code would register
`socket` with readable interests and edge triggers.

```rust
poll.register(&socket, Token(0), Ready::readable(), PollOpt::edge())?;
```

As mentioned above the `Event` type was changed to be a wrapper around the

> native OS type, in turn this removed the `Ready` type in favour of having

Reviewer 2: Run on sentence.  s/type, in/type.  In/

methods on `Event` to check for the readiness indicators and getting the

> `Token`. The `Ready` type, as used in registering, was changed to `Interests` to

Reviewer 2: s/registering/registration/

better reflect its usage. The API of `Interests` was also changed to take

> advanced of the (somewhat) new associated constants, ensuring that is no longer

Reviewer 2: s/advanced/advantage/

possible to register an event source with empty interests.

> In version 0.7 Mio registers all source with edge triggers, removing the need

Reviewer 2: s/source/sources/

> for `PollOpt`. How to use edge triggers is explained below.

Reviewer 2: s/How to use/The use of/

The trait that defined how to register an event source in version 0.6 was called

> `Evented`, this was changed to `Source` and is now referenced to as

Reviewer 2: Run-on sentence.  s/, this/.  This/

> `Evented`, this was changed to `Source` and is now referenced to as

Reviewer 2: s/referenced to/referred to/

> `event::Source`, as the type lives inside the `event` module. The same three

Reviewer 2: What same three methods?

Author: The same three methods that lived on `Evented`, i.e. `register`, `reregister` and `deregister`. How can I make that more clear?

Reviewer 2: How about "`evented::Source` has the same three methods as `Evented`: `register`, `reregister`, and `deregister`.

> methods live on the trait but are changed as described above.

Reviewer 2: s/on the trait/in the trait/

> Finally the register functions have moved from `Poll` to a new `Registry` type

Reviewer 2: Are the functions all literally named "register"?  If so us backticks.  But if they have different names and are related merely through the general theme of registration, then s/register/registration/

which can be `try_clone`d and used to register sources from different threads.
All together that means registering the same `socket` with readable interests
now looks like this:

```rust
poll.registry().register(&socket, Token(0), Interests::READABLE)?;
```

#### Moving to edge triggers

> As already mentioned Mio now registers all I/O source with edge triggers which

Reviewer 2: s/source/sources/

> means that users of one-shot and level trigger need to change how they respond

Reviewer 2: s/trigger/triggers/

to events.

> The problem was that certain usages of level and one-shot triggers showed

Reviewer 2: "The problem" implies an antecedent, but none is apparent.  You seem to be introducing a new problem in this paragraph, so you should say "A problem" instead.

Also, the problem didn't go away with mio 0.7; we just sidestep the issue.  So I would describe the problem in the present tense.

A problem is that certain uses of level and one-shot triggers show differences between OSes that Mio can't cancel without unacceptable overhead.  We want Mio to present a nice cross-platform experience, so we decided to make all I/O sources edge-triggered.  This way the behavior is identical on all platforms.

differences in OSes that Mio couldn't, without introducing a lot of overhead,
smooth over to make Mio a nice cross-platform experience. Instead we decided to
change all triggers to be edge triggers, which perform the same way on all
platforms.

Users that previously used one-shot triggers should now `deregister` the I/O

> source if they no longer want to receive events for it. And once more events are

Reviewer 2: `deregister` the I/O source after receiving an event.

I would drop the second sentence entirely.  If users were already using one-shot triggers, then they were also already reregistering events if they were reusing sources.

wanted the resource should be `register`ed again.

> Users that used level triggers basically need to put a loop around all I/O

Reviewer 2: "Users that used" is nicely alliterative, but since this isn't poetry I suggest "Users of".

> operations. When using edge triggers the user is responsible for attempting the

Reviewer 2: I suggest:

When using edge triggers the user is required to perform I/O after receiving an event.  For example, in response to a read event, the user must read from the I/O source until it would block(an
`io::Error` of kind `io::ErrorKind::WouldBlock`).

I/O operation, e.g. a `read`, until it returns a would block error (an
`io::Error` of kind `io::ErrorKind::WouldBlock`). Only once an operation

> returned a would block error the source will receive more events for that kind

Reviewer 2: returns a `WouldBlock` error will Mio report any more events for that `Interest` on that I/O source .

> of operation. Below is a sample example of how to read from a `TcpStream` using

Reviewer 2: "sample example" has a nice rhyme.  Are you sure you aren't a poet?  But it's also redundant.  Use one word or the other, but not both.

edge triggers.

```rust
let stream: TcpStream = ...;

> // After we polled we received an readable event for our `TcpStream`.

Reviewer 2: s/an readable/a readable/

> // After we polled we received an readable event for our `TcpStream`.

Reviewer 2: Doesn't the action of polling itself return the event?  If so, s/After we polled/When we polled/ .

let mut buf = [0; 4096];
// With edge triggers we need to read all data available on the socket.
loop {
    let bytes_read = match stream.read(&mut buf) {
        // Read successful, proceed like normal.
        Ok(bytes_read) => bytes_read,

>         // No more data to read at the moment. Now we will receive another event

Reviewer 2: You can leave out the "Now".

        // once more data is available to read.
        Err(ref err) if err.kind() == io::ErrorKind::WouldBlock => break,
        // Got interrupted, try again.
        Err(ref err) if err.kind() == io::ErrorKind::Interrupted => continue,
        // Hit an actual error.
        Err(err) => return Err(err),
    };

    process_byte(&buf[0..bytes_read]);
}
```

> **Note**: this needs to happen for all I/O operations on registered event source

Reviewer 2: s/source/sources/

so be careful when using automated tools to convert to the new register API.

### Addition of Unix socket API

New in the `net` module are the `UnixListener`, `UnixStream` and `UnixDatagram`
types that support Unix sockets with an API similar to that found in the
standard library.

These APIs are currently only support on Unix based OSes.

### Removal of deprecated API

In Mio version 0.6 various types, such as the old event loop related and channel
types, were deprecated. In version 0.7 all deprecated type were removed.

### Removed support for OSes

> Support for the following OSes is dropped:

Reviewer 2: Since the sentence has no subject, you should use passive voice: s/is dropped/has been dropped/ .

>  * Linux below version 4, we using newer APIs not present on old Linux versions.

Reviewer 2: s/, we using/: we are using/ and s/old/older/

Reviewer 3: I thought we were copying libuv on the support front: https://github.com/libuv/libuv/blob/v1.x/SUPPORTED_PLATFORMS.md

Granted, we don't have CI for some of those... so i guess that is "best effort"?

Author: I've looked through the Linux code and the manuals and found the following requirements:
* `sys::Waker`: uses eventfd(2), requires Linux 2.6.27, glibc 2.8.
* `sys::net` types: uses socket(2) with SOCK_NONBLOCK and SOCK_CLOEXEC, requires Linux 2.6.27.
* `sys::Selector`: uses epoll_create1(2), requires Linux 2.6.27 and glibc 2.9.

So I would say Linux version 2.6.27 (and glibc 2.9) are required. I don't know why libuv requires 2.6.32 (and glibc 2.12), maybe because RHEL 6 uses 2.6.32?

>  * Fuchsia, didn't have any CI coverage and we don't have enough maintainers to

Reviewer 2: s/,/:/

   properly support it.

>  * Bitrig, development on the OS seems to have stopped and rustc no longer

Reviewer 2: s/,/:/

   supports it.

<!-- TODO: refer to a document that specifies supported OS and versions? -->

> ### Increased minimum Rust version

Reviewer 2: For consistency with other projects' usage, I suggest s/minimum/minimum supported/ .

> As of writing this the minimum Rust version is increased to 1.36, for version

Reviewer 2: again, s/minimum/minimum supported/ .  Also, you should either use passive voice "has been increased", or simply state "is 1.36.  And make that 1.36.0.  Finally, this is a run-on sentence.  s/, for/.  For/ .

> 1.0 we aimed to target the same Rustc version in which async becomes stable (as

Reviewer 2: Use present tense.  s/aimed/aim/ .

> 1.0 we aimed to target the same Rustc version in which async becomes stable (as

Reviewer 2: `async` is a keyword, so you should use backticks.

> this is major feature for which a lot of crates that dependent on this crate

Reviewer 2: s/crates that dependent on this crate/our dependent crates/

> have been waiting). Again at the time writing this seems to be Rust 1.39, so

Reviewer 2: I suggest s/have been/are/ .

> have been waiting). Again at the time writing this seems to be Rust 1.39, so

Reviewer 2: I suggest

As of this writing that would be Rust 1.39.0, so keep those compilers up to date!

keep those compilers up to date!

## Maintainer changes

> Outside of change to the code changes have also been made to the maintaining

Reviewer 2: I suggest:

Apart from code, we have also made some management changes.  The repository has moved to the [Tokio organization] and multiple new people have joined the team.

### Wrapping native OS types

In version 0.6, Mio defined its own `Event` structure to which the native OS
types where converted. This meant that after polling the native types (i.e.
`kevent` or `epoll_event` structures) would be converted into Mio's `Event`
type. In version 0.7, the `Event` was changed to simply be a type wrapper around

> `kqueue` or `epoll_event`, which provides convenience methods to get the event

Reviewer 2: s/kqueue/kevent/

### Removed support for OSes

Support for the following OSes has been dropped:

 * Linux below version 2.6.27 (and glibc 2.9), we are using newer APIs not
   present on older Linux versions, specifically `eventfd(2)`, `SOCK_NONBLOCK`
   and `SOCK_CLOEXEC` options in `socket(2)` and `epoll_create1(2)`.
 * Fuchsia: didn't have any CI coverage and we don't have enough maintainers to
   properly support it.
 * Bitrig: development on the OS seems to have stopped and rustc no longer
   supports it.

<!-- TODO: refer to a document that specifies supported OS and versions? -->

### Increased minimum supported Rust version

As of writing this the minimum supported Rust version is 1.36. For version 1.0
we aim to target [Rust version 1.39], as this is the version in which `async`

> has become stable (a major feature which a lot of our dependent crates are

Reviewer 2: No need for passive voice.  Just say "`async` became stable".
